Okay. March of 2017, Docker came out with
two editions. It used to just be all Docker.
Now you have Docker Enterprise Edition
and Docker Community Edition. This is
starting to cost a little bit of confusion
in the marketplace, as to which is which.
So, I put together a little slide
deck here, to go through exactly what the
changes are and what that means to you
as a Java developer. Alright, we are here
to talk about Docker editions. Docker now
has two editions - the Enterprise Edition
and the Docker Community Edition. Now
this was just announced, at least I'm
recording it, it's announced on March 2nd
by Docker and that's roughly a month ago,
from when I was recording this course.
Now, Docker Enterprise Edition is
something that they're coining as a
Container as a Service platform
subscription. So, this is gonna be the
whole containerized stuff.
In docker Enterprise Edition, you're
gonna get enterprise class support. There
will be quarterly releases made of
Docker and you're going to get back
ported patches for up to one year after
that release is made. So if you're running
on release three, and it's six months
later, under this program, you will be
able to get patches going back for any
critical things that are affecting you.
As part of Docker Enterprise,
you also get certified
infrastructure, so you're running
certified containers and plugins, and so
all the stuff is certified. It's not
quite the wild west that Docker is or
has been up until now.
Now, the Docker Community Edition is
gonna continue to be free. This is
free edition that can be used by
developers and also in operations, as
well, where you don't need that critical
Enterprise support. Now in Docker
Community, there are gonna be monthly
they're calling them edge releases.
On edge releases, that's we're gonna
get all the latest features and
stuff that's just coming out in the
Docker community. This is where you gonna
get those cutting edge features. And then,
you also will get quarterly releases for
magic and using inside of operations.
I wanna point out that Docker Enterprise is a paid subscription from Docker, while
Docker Community is going to be free and
continue to be free. With this
announcement, there's a change in how
Docker is doing release number or their
version numbering. The last release
of just regular old Docker was 1.13.1
and the first release of Docker
Enterprise and Docker Community Edition
is 17.03. This is a change in how
Docker is doing their version numbering.
They're going to year, month, the
version, and Edition. So let me show you
what that looks like on my MacBook. So
I'm running the docker plug-in and we
can see that 17 for 2017,
March 3rd 03 and it's the first
release and it's community edition for
for Mac. Just so you can help
visualize how Docker is planning on
doing their releases. This is a graphic
that Docker has published along with the
announcement. So you can see there, at the
top, we have Docker CE and this is gonna be the monthly releases of Docker on
the edge edition, and then you also have
the stable edition, where for the not so
adventurous and they may need a quality
working software those stable releases
will be done once a quarter. And then
again on the Docker Enterprise, down at
the bottom, there in green, that is also
going to be quarterly releases as well.
Now, the two operating system supported,
there's a little bit of a difference
there. You have Enterprise Edition, so
that's gonna be all your big
enterprise - Linux distributions, Windows
Server, they have like Oracle, Oracle
Linux, SUSE and of course Red Hat, and
then as well some other popular
enterprise class Linux is such as CentOS,
Ubuntu
and Amazon has their own flavor Linux as
well. So Docker enterprise will run on
all the above. Then community edition
is going to continue supporting OS X,
Windows 10 and then popular flavors of
Linux as well. If you notice one
important difference there is paid Linux
distributions such as Red Hat Enterprise
Linux are not available under the
community edition. You may be wondering
why there's two docker editions.
Part of it is, Dockers have enjoyed
explosive growth over the last several
years. As a company, Docker has gone from
a couple guys probably working on a
garage, if not more, to more of a mature
company, and this is really a maturing of
Docker and the technology to allow
Docker to offer enterprise class support.
This is gonna give Docker a chance to
certify that the software, that they are
delivering to you, in the docker store,
the docker containers are certified to
be free of known critical defects and
anything that could cause you a security
concern. Stuff like this is gonna
be very important to companies, like
financial services or healthcare
companies, where they are under
regulatory compliance to certify that
their platform in the software that
they're running in their enterprise is
free of critical defects. This gives
those companies support, so if something
does go wrong, they have somebody call
upon - the Docker organization, as well
as having certified software, where all
known defects have been taken care of. If
you're running Docker itself, Docker
itself is still gonna enjoy this but
it's the certified containers and
plugins that are gonna be missing
from the stack. So you can go out to
Docker hub now and it's literally the
one of the best. You can throw anything up
there. As far as I know, to my
knowledge, there's no filtering of that.
So anything that you're pulling down
from Docker hub, it's really kind of a user journalist type thing, where Docker
Enterprise is going to certify things
for you. Now you may be wondering as a
developer, which one you want to use,
functionally, the two editions are the
same. There's no API changes. They are
gonna behave and function the same. It's
more of the certification and support that
you're gonna get with Docker
Enterprise, which you're not gonna
have in the community edition. A lot of
people may or may not know this, so
CentOS and Red Hat are literally the
same, for all intensive purposes.
CentOS actually watches the Red Hat
repositories, strips out, copies down that
edition of Linux lesson a Red Hat
specific code and releases that. So the
two OS's are literally the same, but was
CentOS, you're on your own,
where Red Hat Enterprise Linux, you do
get Red Hat support and certification. So
that Docker Community and Docker
Enterprise are just like these two.
Generally, as a Java developer, as a
Spring developer, the community issues
should be just fine.
It still runs on Windows 10, it runs on
OS X, still runs on a lot of popular Linux
distributions. The only gachi
you might run into, is if you're running,
like Red Hat Enterprise, in the workplace
and then you'll probably need
Docker Enterprise Edition running on
that or revert to CentOS and you'll
be fine. So 95% of the time, I think
Docker developers are gonna be just
fine using the free Community edition and free which we've enjoyed all
this time. Okay, so now we have the two
editions of Docker - Docker Enterprise and
Docker Community Edition. As somebody
that develops applications for the
enterprise, I see this is a very good
sign because what we are seeing is
Docker as a company is maturing and
they're offering us better support,
certification. So companies are gonna
continue using Docker. I see this is a
great sign for Dockers growth especially
in another Enterprise. Dockers is not a
technology that's going away. So your
investment in using Docker is definitely
a good investment. I see Dockers, as a
technology, it's gonna be around to
stay because you are seeing it mature in
the marketplace, as it is now. So we still
enjoy the free edition and
all the features and functionality a
Docker, and now as a big company, and
I have my mission-critical apps. I have a
certified software that I can go to, turn
to, and get that support from Docker,
meet my regulatory compliance, so
companies are gonna continue using
Docker, and we as Java developers are
gonna have great toolset to continue
working with.